[outdated] ZIPs 226 & 227 - ZSA Protocol: Transfer, Issuance and Burn (#649)
zcash/zips: zip-0226.rst

::

  ZIP: 226
  Title: Transfer and Burn of Zcash Shielded Assets
  Owners: Daniel Benarroch <daniel@qed-it.com>
          Pablo Kogan <pablo@qed-it.com>
          Aurelien Nicolas <aurel@qed-it.com>
  Credits: Daira Hopwood
           Jack Grigg
           Vivek Arte
  Status: Draft
  Category: Consensus
  Created: 2022-05-01
  License: MIT
  Discussions-To: <https://github.com/zcash/zips/issues/618>

Terminology
===========

The key word "MUST" in this document is to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [#RFC2119]_.

The term "network upgrade" in this document is to be interpreted as described in ZIP 200 [#zip-0200]_.

The term "Orchard" in this document is to be interpreted as described in ZIP 224 [#zip-0224]_.

We define the following additional terms:

- Asset: A type of note that can be transferred on the Zcash block chain, identified by the :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` parameter.

>   - ZEC is the default (and currently the only defined) Asset for the Zcash mainnet.
>   - We use the term "custom Asset" to refer to any Asset other than ZEC.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - ZEC is the default (and currently the only defined) Asset for the Zcash mainnet.
  - TAZ is the default (and currently the only defined) Asset for the Zcash testnet.
  - We use the term "custom Asset" to refer to any Asset other than ZEC and TAZ.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

> - Zcash Shielded Asset: an Asset with issuance defined on the Zcash block chain, and, for now, belonging to the Orchard shielded pool.
> - Wrapped Asset: a Zcash Shielded Asset with native issuance defined outside the Zcash block chain.
> - Split Input: an Action input identifying a Zcash Shielded Asset note, used to ensure that the output note of that Action is of a validly issued :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` when there is no corresponding real input note to spend. The Action does not spend the note identified by the Split Input.
> - Split Action: a Zcash Shielded Asset Action that contains a Split Input.

Reviewer: These definitions are contradictory: a Wrapped Asset is a Zcash Shielded Asset (which by definition has issuance defined on the Zcash chain) that has issuance defined outside the Zcash chain.

```suggestion
- Native Asset: a Custom Asset with issuance defined on the Zcash block chain.
- Wrapped Asset: a Custom Asset with native issuance defined outside the Zcash block chain.
- Split Input: an Action input identifying a Custom Asset note, used to ensure that the output note of that Action is of a validly issued :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` when there is no corresponding real input note to spend. The Action does not spend the note identified by the Split Input.
- Split Action: an Action that contains a Split Input.

We use "Zcash Shielded Assets" to refer to the set of proposed protocol features that enable transacting with Custom Assets on the Zcash chain.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

Abstract
========

> ZIP 226 and ZIP 227 propose in conjunction the Zcash Shielded Assets (ZSA) protocol, which is an extension of the
> Orchard protocol that enables the creation, transfer, and burn of custom Assets on the Zcash chain. The creation of such Assets is defined
> in ZIP 227 [#zip-0227]_. The transfer and burn of such Assets is defined in ZIP 226 [#zip-0226]_.

Reviewer: We use "Zcash Shielded Assets" to refer to the 
```suggestion
ZIP 226 and ZIP 227 propose in conjunction the Zcash Shielded Assets (ZSA) protocol &mdash; a set
of protocol features that enable the creation, transfer, and burn of Custom Assets on the Zcash chain.

Creation of such Assets is defined in ZIP 227 [#zip-0227]_. Transfer and burn of such Assets is defined
in ZIP 226 [#zip-0226]_. The ZSA protocol is proposed to be instantiated by a modification to the
Orchard protocol, as specified in these ZIPs.
```

Reviewer 2: This is outdated, was adopted, and then has changed based on further reviews.

Motivation
==========

> The Orchard protocol deployed in NU5 does not support custom Assets. Enabling multi-asset support on the Zcash chain will open the door for a host of applications, and enhance the ecosystem with application developers and Asset custody institutions for issuance and bridging purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
None of the currently deployed Zcash transfer protocols support Custom Assets. Enabling
multi-asset support on the Zcash chain will open the door for a host of applications, and
enhance the ecosystem with application developers and Asset custody institutions for
issuance and bridging purposes.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

Overview
========
In order to be able to represent different Asset identifiers in Orchard, we need to define a new data field that uniquely represents the identifier of the Asset in question, which we call :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`.

> The Asset identifier will be used to enforce the balance of an Action Description [#protocol-actions]_ is preserved across Assets (see the Orchard Binding Signature [#protocol-binding]_), and by extension the balance of an Orchard transaction. That is, the sum of all the :math:`\mathsf{value^{net}}` from each Action Description, computed as :math:`\mathsf{value^{old}-value^{new}}`, must be balanced **only with respect to the same Asset identifier**. This is specially important since we will allow different Action Descriptions to transfer notes of different Asset identifiers, where the overall balance is checked without revealing which Assets (or how many different identifiers) are being transferred.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Asset identifier will be used to enforce that the balance of an Action Description [#protocol-actions]_ is preserved across Assets (see the Orchard Binding Signature [#protocol-binding]_), and by extension the balance of an Orchard transaction. That is, the sum of all the :math:`\mathsf{value^{net}}` from each Action Description, computed as :math:`\mathsf{value^{old}-value^{new}}`, must be balanced **only with respect to the same Asset identifier**. This is specially important since we will allow different Action Descriptions to transfer notes of different Asset identifiers, where the overall balance is checked without revealing which Assets (or how many different identifiers) are being transferred.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

> As was initially proposed by Jack Grigg and Daira Hopwood [#initial-zsa-issue]_, we propose to make this happen by changing the value base point, :math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`, in the Homomorphic Pedersen Commitment that generates the value commitment, :math:`\mathsf{cv^{net}}`, of the *net value* in an Orchard Action.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As was initially proposed by Jack Grigg and Daira Hopwood [#initial-zsa-issue]_ [#generalized-value-bases]_, we propose to make this happen by changing the value base point, :math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`, in the Homomorphic Pedersen Commitment that derives the value commitment, :math:`\mathsf{cv^{net}}`, of the *net value* in an Orchard Action.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

Because in a single transaction all value commitments are balanced, there must be as many different value base points as there are Asset identifiers in the transaction. We propose to make the :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` identifier an auxiliary input to the proof for each Action statement [#protocol-actionstatement]_, represented already as a point on the Pallas curve. The circuit then should check that the same :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` is used in the old note commitment and the new note commitment [#protocol-concretesinsemillacommit]_, **and** as the base point :math:`\mathcal{V}^\mathsf{Orchard}` in the value commitment [#protocol-concretevaluecommit]_. This ensures (1) that the input and output notes are of the same :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`, and (2) that only actions with the same Asset identifier will balance out in the binding and balance signatures.

> In order to ensure the security of the transfers, and as we will explain below, we are redefining input dummy notes [#protocol-dummynotes]_ for custom Assets, as we need to enforce that the :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` of the output note of that split Action is the output of a PRF.

Reviewer: TODO: should this be PRF, or hash-to-curve?

Reviewer 2: Edited to make it `AssetIdHash`.

.. [#protocol-concretesinsemillahash] `Zcash Protocol Specification, Version 2021.2.16 [NU5 proposal]. Section 5.4.1.9: Sinsemilla hash function <protocol/protocol.pdf#concretesinsemillahash>`_
.. [#protocol-concretesinsemillacommit] `Zcash Protocol Specification, Version 2021.2.16 [NU5 proposal]. Section 5.4.8.4: Sinsemilla commitments <protocol/protocol.pdf#concretesinsemillacommit>`_
.. [#protocol-concretevaluecommit] `Zcash Protocol Specification, Version 2021.2.16 [NU5 proposal]. Section 5.4.8.3: Homomorphic Pedersen commitments (Sapling and Orchard) <protocol/protocol.pdf#concretevaluecommit>`_
.. [#protocol-dummynotes] `Zcash Protocol Specification, Version 2021.2.16 [NU5 proposal]. Section 4.8.3: Dummy Notes (Orchard) <protocol/protocol.pdf#>`_
.. [#protocol-actionstatement] `Zcash Protocol Specification, Version 2021.2.16 [NU5 proposal]. Section 4.17.4: Action Statement (Orchard) <protocol/protocol.pdf#actionstatement>`_
.. [#protocol-transactionstructure] `Zcash Protocol Specification, Version 2021.2.16 [NU5 proposal]. Section 7.1: Transaction Encoding and Consensus (Transaction Version 5)  <protocol/protocol.pdf#>`_

> .. [#initial-zsa-issue] `User-Defined Assets and Wrapped Assets <https://github.com/str4d/zips/blob/zip-udas/drafts/zip-user-defined-assets.rst>`_

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. [#initial-zsa-issue] `User-Defined Assets and Wrapped Assets <https://github.com/str4d/zips/blob/zip-udas/drafts/zip-user-defined-assets.rst>`_
.. [#generalized-value-commitments] `Comment on Generalized Value Commitments <https://github.com/zcash/zcash/issues/2277#issuecomment-321106819>`_
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

ZSA Transaction Structure
=========================
Similar to version 5 transaction format, with the following modifications to the Orchard bundle, as defined in [#protocol-transactionstructure]_:

+-----------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+-------------------------+
| Bytes           | Name        | Data Type                         | Description             |
+=================+=============+===================================+=========================+
| varies          | nAssetBurn  | compactSize                       | number of assets burnt  |
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+-------------------------+
| 40*nAssetBurn   | vAssetBurn  | bytes[40][nAssetBurn]             | 32 bytes asset type_t,  |
|                 |             |                                   | 8 bytes of valueBalance |
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+-------------------------+

> And in terms of the action size, the ZSA action size differs from the Orchard action size by 32 bytes (given by the addition of the `AssetId`). This implies that the size goes from 820 bytes in the Orchard action to 852 bytes in the ZSA action.

Reviewer 3: This should be part of a new ZIP for the v6 transaction format. You could start by copying the Orchard format from:
https://zips.z.cash/zip-0225

This can be a very rough draft, we'll fix up any issues later.

Reviewer 2: The V6 transaction ZIP draft has been created [here](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/687), we will help add our additions in there via reviews/comments.

::

  ZIP: 226
  Title: Transfer and Burn of Zcash Shielded Assets
  Owners: Daniel Benarroch <daniel@qed-it.com>
          Pablo Kogan <pablo@qed-it.com>
          Aurelien Nicolas <aurel@qed-it.com>
  Credits: Daira Hopwood
           Jack Grigg
           Vivek Arte
  Status: Draft
  Category: Consensus
  Created: 2022-05-01
  License: MIT
  Discussions-To: <https://github.com/zcash/zips/issues/618>

Terminology
===========

The key word "MUST" in this document is to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [#RFC2119]_.

The term "network upgrade" in this document is to be interpreted as described in ZIP 200 [#zip-0200]_.

The term "Orchard" in this document is to be interpreted as described in ZIP 224 [#zip-0224]_.

We define the following additional terms:

> - Asset: A type of note that can be transferred on the Zcash block chain, identified by the :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` parameter.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- Asset: A type of note that can be transferred on the Zcash block chain, identified by the :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}` parameter.
```

Reviewer 2: The Asset need not be uniquely identified by the `asset_desc` parameter, it is the combination of the issuance validating key `ik` and the asset description `asset_desc` that is unique. 

@daira had made comments to this effect earlier (mainly [here](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649#discussion_r1042738161), with related comments [here](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649#discussion_r1042777963), [here](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649#discussion_r1042784928), and [here](https://github.com/zcash/zips/pull/649#discussion_r1042787147). 

This seems better than using the Pallas point when we are considering future changes to the curves, but since the `asset_desc` string can be long, we will probably need to hash the `(ik, asset_desc)` tuple using BLAKE2 and use that as the Asset Identifier.

- Split Input: an Action input identifying a Custom Asset note, used to ensure that the output note of that Action is of a validly issued :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` when there is no corresponding real input note to spend. The Action does not spend the note identified by the Split Input.
- Split Action: an Action that contains a Split Input.

Abstract
========

ZIP 226 and ZIP 227 propose in conjunction the Zcash Shielded Assets (ZSA) protocol &mdash; a set
of protocol features that enable the creation, transfer, and burn of Custom Assets on the Zcash chain.

Creation of such Assets is defined in ZIP 227 [#zip-0227]_. Transfer and burn of such Assets is defined
in ZIP 226 [#zip-0226]_. The ZSA protocol is proposed to be instantiated by a modification to the
Orchard protocol, as specified in these ZIPs.

Motivation
==========

None of the currently deployed Zcash transfer protocols support Custom Assets. Enabling
multi-asset support on the Zcash chain will open the door for a host of applications, and
enhance the ecosystem with application developers and Asset custody institutions for
issuance and bridging purposes.

Overview
========

> In order to be able to represent different Asset identifiers in Orchard, we need to define a new data field that uniquely represents the identifier of the Asset in question, which we call :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In order to be able to represent different Asset identifiers in Orchard, we need to define a new data field that uniquely represents the identifier of the Asset in question, which we call :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}`.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

> In order to be able to represent different Asset identifiers in Orchard, we need to define a new data field that uniquely represents the identifier of the Asset in question, which we call :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`.

Reviewer 4: Anywhere where we haven't specified something else, please specify :math:`\mathsf{AssetId^{Orchard}}` vs the general, shielded protocol-agnostic :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`

Reviewer 2: Has been subsequently replaced by `AssetBase`, but have used the Orchard specific terminology where necessary.

In order to ensure the security of the transfers, and as we will explain below, we are redefining input dummy notes [#protocol-dummynotes]_ for custom Assets, as we need to enforce that the :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` of the output note of that split Action is the output of a PRF.

Finally, in this ZIP we also describe the *burn* mechanism, which is a direct extension of the transfer mechanism. The burn process uses a similar mechanism to what is used in Orchard to unshield ZEC, by using the :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance}` of the Asset in question. Burning Assets is useful for many purposes, including bridging of Wrapped Assets and removing supply of Assets.

Specification
=============

Most of the protocol is kept the same as the Orchard protocol released with NU5, except for the following.

> Asset Identifiers

Reviewer 4: This section should specify how :math:`\mathsf{AssetId^{Orchard}}` is computed

Reviewer 2: Done.

-----------------

> For every new Asset, there must be a new and unique identifier of the Asset. Every Asset is defined by the *Asset description*, :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}`, which is a global byte string (valid across all -future- Zcash protocols). From this Asset description the specific Asset identifier, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`, is derived with a `GroupHash` and used within the output notes, as defined by the specific protocol (e.g.: for now Orchard-style, using Pallas curve).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
For every new Asset, there must be a new and unique identifier of the Asset. Every Asset is defined by the *Asset description*, :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}`, which is a global byte string (scoped across all future versions of Zcash). From this Asset description the specific Asset identifier, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`, is derived with a `GroupHash` and used within the output notes, as defined by the specific protocol (e.g.: for now Orchard-style, using Pallas curve).
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

This :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` will be the base point of the value commitment for the specific custom Asset. Note that the :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` of the ZEC Asset will be kept as the original value base point, :math:`\mathcal{V}^\mathsf{Orchard}`.

> In future network and protocol upgrades, the same Asset description string can be carried on, with potentially a mapping into a different shielded protocol. In that case, the turnstile should know how to transform the Asset identifier, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`, from one shielded protocol to another.

Reviewer 4: We're not going to be able to transform `AssetId`s which are group elements from one shielded protocol to another as that would involve solving discrete log; the derivation from the global `asset_desc` should be doable for each shielded protocol 

// @str4d @daira

Reviewer 2: The structure has now been updated: `asset_desc` and `AssetId` are global, and the `AssetBase` can be derived from this for each protocol.

Note Structure & Commitment
---------------------------

> First, we need to adapt the components that define the Assets, i.e.: *notes*. A ZSA note differs from an Orchard note [#protocol-notes]_ by additionally including the identifier of the Asset, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`. So a ZSA note is a tuple :math:`(\mathsf{g_d, pk_d, v, \rho, \psi, AssetId})`,

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
A ZSA note differs from an Orchard note [#protocol-notes]_ by additionally including the identifier of the Asset, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`. So a ZSA note is a tuple :math:`(\mathsf{g_d, pk_d, v, \rho, \psi, AssetId})`,
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

where 

> - :math:`\mathsf{AssetId} : \mathbb{P}` is the unique random element of the Pallas group [#protocol-pallasandvesta]_ that identifies each Asset in the Orchard protocol. 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- :math:`\mathsf{AssetId} : \mathbb{P*}` is the unique random element of the Pallas group [#protocol-pallasandvesta]_ that identifies each Asset in the Orchard protocol, a valid non-bottom group element that is not the identity.
```

If it did include the identity, it would not be binding

Reviewer 5: I noted during the ZIP editors review that if an asset can be produced with an `AssetId` of the identity, the value balance for that asset becomes trivially satisfiable (independently of any other asset), making counterfeiting of the asset inherent to its identity 🥁🔔

Non-identity `AssetId`s don't have this issue; there we still rely on having unknown relationships to other `AssetId`s, but within a single asset this is sufficient to ensure the value balance is binding.

Reviewer 6: As discussed, the probability for the identity point for `pallas::Point::hash_to_curve()` is negligible. 
We will add a consensus rule for the issuance bundle to ensure that the identity point isn't used as `assetBase`.

Reviewer 2: We discussed this in a recent sync, the conclusion was to explicitly preclude the identity, as given in the suggestion. This has been incorporated.

Let :math:`\mathsf{Note^{OrchardZSA}}` be the type of a ZSA note, i.e. 

> :math:`\mathsf{Note^{OrchardZSA}} := \mathsf{Note^{Orchard}} \times \mathbb{P}`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
:math:`\mathsf{Note^{OrchardZSA}} := \mathsf{Note^{Orchard}} \times \mathbb{P*}`.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

> :math:`\mathsf{Note^{OrchardZSA}} := \mathsf{Note^{Orchard}} \times \mathbb{P}`.

Reviewer 5: Move this to the top of the "Note Structure & Commitment" section.

Reviewer 2: Done.

> In this case, the instance of the note commitment scheme, :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcm}}`, will differ from :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{Orchard}_{rcm}}` in that for non-ZEC Assets, the Asset identifier will be added as an input to the commitment computation. As we will see, the nested structure of the Sinsemilla-based commitment [#protocol-concretesinsemillacommit]_ allows us to add the Asset identifier as a final recursive step, and hence keep a single instance of the Sinsemilla hash function in the circuit for the note commitment verification.
> 
> The commitment output is still indistinguishable from the original Orchard ZEC note commitments, by definition of the Sinsemilla hash function [#protocol-concretesinsemillahash]_. ZSA note commitments will therefore be added to the same Orchard Note Commitment Tree. In essence, we have:
> 
> .. math:: \mathsf{NoteCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcm}(repr_{\mathbb{P}}(g_d), repr_{\mathbb{P}}(pk_d), v, \rho, \psi, AssetId)} \in \mathsf{NoteCommit^{Orchard}.Output}

Reviewer 5: This describes the rationale for the approach taken, but is not a specification of the approach. Rework this to specify how the note commitment for an Orchard ZSA note is computed, optionally including the rationale afterwards (see [ZIP 317](https://zips.z.cash/zip-0317#rationale-for-block-template-construction-algorithm) for an example of doing this in-line):

```suggestion
The note commitment for :math:`\mathsf{Note^{OrchardZSA}}` is:

 :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcm}} = ...`

 
Rationale for Orchard ZSA note commitment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The nested structure of the Sinsemilla-based commitment [#protocol-concretesinsemillacommit]_ allows us to add the Asset identifier as a final recursive step, and hence keep a single instance of the Sinsemilla hash function in the circuit for the note commitment verification.

The commitment output is still indistinguishable from the original Orchard ZEC note commitments, by definition of the Sinsemilla hash function [#protocol-concretesinsemillahash]_. ZSA note commitments will therefore be added to the same Orchard Note Commitment Tree. In essence, we have:

.. math:: \mathsf{NoteCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcm}(repr_{\mathbb{P}}(g_d), repr_{\mathbb{P}}(pk_d), v, \rho, \psi, AssetId)} \in \mathsf{NoteCommit^{Orchard}.Output}
```

Alternatively, move the rationale to the bottom of the document in a common "Rationale" section (see [ZIP 244](https://zips.z.cash/zip-0244#rationale) for an example of this).

In general, the intention here is that the "Specification" section should be sufficiently clear and standalone that it can be correctly implemented without any of the rationale.

> The nullifier is generated in the same manner as in the Orchard protocol.

Reviewer 4: Link?

Reviewer 2: Added in, thanks!

> In this case, the instance of the note commitment scheme, :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcm}}`, will differ from :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{Orchard}_{rcm}}` in that for non-ZEC Assets, the Asset identifier will be added as an input to the commitment computation. As we will see, the nested structure of the Sinsemilla-based commitment [#protocol-concretesinsemillacommit]_ allows us to add the Asset identifier as a final recursive step, and hence keep a single instance of the Sinsemilla hash function in the circuit for the note commitment verification.
> 
> The commitment output is still indistinguishable from the original Orchard ZEC note commitments, by definition of the Sinsemilla hash function [#protocol-concretesinsemillahash]_. ZSA note commitments will therefore be added to the same Orchard Note Commitment Tree. In essence, we have:
> 
> .. math:: \mathsf{NoteCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcm}(repr_{\mathbb{P}}(g_d), repr_{\mathbb{P}}(pk_d), v, \rho, \psi, AssetId)} \in \mathsf{NoteCommit^{Orchard}.Output}
> 
> The nullifier is generated in the same manner as in the Orchard protocol.

Reviewer 5: This describes the rationale for the approach taken, but is not a specification of the approach. Rework this to specify how the note commitment for an Orchard ZSA note is computed, optionally including the rationale afterwards (see [ZIP 317](https://zips.z.cash/zip-0317#rationale-for-block-template-construction-algorithm) for an example of doing this in-line):

```suggestion
The note commitment for :math:`\mathsf{Note^{OrchardZSA}}` is:

 :math:`\mathsf{NoteCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcm}} = ...`
 
The nullifier is generated in the same manner as in the Orchard protocol.

Rationale for Orchard ZSA note commitment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The nested structure of the Sinsemilla-based commitment [#protocol-concretesinsemillacommit]_ allows us to add the Asset identifier as a final recursive step, and hence keep a single instance of the Sinsemilla hash function in the circuit for the note commitment verification.

The commitment output is still indistinguishable from the original Orchard ZEC note commitments, by definition of the Sinsemilla hash function [#protocol-concretesinsemillahash]_. ZSA note commitments will therefore be added to the same Orchard Note Commitment Tree. In essence, we have:

.. math:: \mathsf{NoteCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcm}(repr_{\mathbb{P}}(g_d), repr_{\mathbb{P}}(pk_d), v, \rho, \psi, AssetId)} \in \mathsf{NoteCommit^{Orchard}.Output}
```

Alternatively, move the rationale to the bottom of the document in a common "Rationale" section (see [ZIP 244](https://zips.z.cash/zip-0244#rationale) for an example of this).

In general, the intention here is that the "Specification" section should be sufficiently clear and standalone that it can be correctly implemented without any of the rationale.

Reviewer 2: Have made this rearrangement

Value Commitment
----------------

> The Orchard Protocol uses a Sinsemilla-based Homomorphic Pedersen Commitment [#protocol-concretevaluecommit]_ to perform the value commitment, which is instantiated as

Reviewer 5: Sinsemilla is the lookup table variant of the Windowed Pedersen Commitment used in Sapling, and is not homomorphic (in the sense needed for a value commitment).

```suggestion
The Orchard Protocol uses a Homomorphic Pedersen Commitment [#protocol-concretevaluecommit]_ to perform the value commitment, which is instantiated as
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

.. math:: \mathsf{cv^{net}:=ValueCommit^{Orchard}_{rcv}(v^{net})}:= \mathsf{[v^{net}]}\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}+[\mathsf{rcv}]\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}

where :math:`\mathsf{v^{net} = v^{old} - v^{new}}`;
:math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}:=\mathsf{GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}}(\texttt{"z.cash:Orchard-cv", "v")}`; and 
:math:`\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}:=\mathsf{GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}}(\texttt{"z.cash:Orchard-cv", "r")}`.

In the case of the Orchard protocol, we see that the base points :math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` and
:math:`\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` are fixed for every value commitment, as the values represent the amount of ZEC

> being transferred.

Reviewer 4: It has been noted above that everything is 'the same' as Orchard except where noted, these can be linked from the spec in this specification section and leaving the new changes/additions in place

In the case of the ZSA protocol, the value of different Asset identifiers in a given transaction will be committed using a **different value base point**. This enables the final balance of the transaction to be securely computed, such that each Asset identifier is balanced independently, as Assets with different identifiers are not meant to be mutually fungible. The value commitment then becomes

.. math:: \mathsf{cv^{net}:=ValueCommit^{OrchardZSA}_{rcv}(v^{net}_{AssetId},\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{OrchardZSA}}_{\mathsf{AssetId}})}:= \mathsf{[v^{net}_{AssetId}]}\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{OrchardZSA}}_{\mathsf{AssetId}}+[\mathsf{rcv}]\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}

where :math:`\mathsf{v^{net}_{AssetId}} = \mathsf{v^{old}_{AssetId} - v^{new}_{AssetId}}` such that :math:`\mathsf{v^{old}_{AssetId}}` and :math:`\mathsf{v^{new}_{AssetId}}` are the values of the old and new notes of identifier :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` respectively,

> .. _`value base`:

Reviewer 4: What is this?

Reviewer 2: It's a link to the equation that we use lower in the ZIP (in the Circuit Statement section)

:math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{OrchardZSA}}_{\mathsf{AssetId}}:=\mathsf{AssetId}`, where the Asset identifier :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` is computed as defined in ZIP 227 [#zip-0227]_, and

:math:`\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}:=\mathsf{GroupHash^{\mathbb{P}}}\texttt{("z.cash:Orchard-cv", "r")}`.

We define :math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{OrchardZSA}}_{\mathsf{ZEC}} :=\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` so that the value commitment for ZEC notes is computed identically to the Orchard protocol deployed in NU5 [#zip-0224]_.

Value Balance Verification
--------------------------

> In order to verify the balance of the different Assets, the verifier MUST perform exactly the same process as for the Orchard protocol [#protocol-binding]_. The main reason why no changes to this process are needed is that no custom Assets can be unshielded, so all custom Assets are contained within the shielded pool. This means that the net balance of the input and output values is zero, with only one Asset identifier of value balance published, that of ZEC, :math:`\mathsf{v^{balanceOrchard}}`. No net amount of any other Asset identifier will be revealed, and the number of Asset identifiers in the transaction is also hidden. The only exception to this is in the case that an Asset is *burnt*, as we will see below in the `burn mechanism`_.

Reviewer 4: This could go into a rationale section

Reviewer 2: Rearranged this.

Note that we do not care about whether the note identified by a Split Input is owned by the sender, or whether it was nullified before.

Wallets and other clients have a choice to make to ensure the Asset type is preserved for the output note of a Split Action:

1. The Split Input note could be another note of the same Asset identifier that is being spent by this transaction (but not by this Split Input). 
2. The Split Input note could be a different unspent note of the same :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` (note that the note will not actually be spent).
3. The Split Input note could be an already spent note of the same :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` (note that by zeroing the value in the circuit, we prevent double spending).

The specific circuit changes are presented below.

Circuit Statement
=================

The advantage of the design described above, with respect to the circuit statement, is that every *ZSA Action statement* is kept closely similar to the Orchard Action statement [#protocol-actionstatement]_, except for a few additions that ensure the security of the Asset identifier system.

> 

Reviewer 4: Replace with a sentence that describes what this section is specifying: the new circuit, or a modification to the NU5 Orchard Action statement?

Reviewer 2: Done.

**Asset Identifier Equality:** the following constraints must be added to ensure that 
the input and output note are of the same :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`:

- The Asset identifier, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`, for the note is witnessed once, as an auxiliary input.
- The witnessed Asset identifier, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`, is added to the old note commitment input.

> - The witnessed Asset identifier, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`, is added to the new note commitment input.

Reviewer 5: This is a modification to Orchard constraints, not the addition of new constraints. It also doesn't describe how to handle backwards compatibility with old note commitments. I note that this is described further down; see my comment there.

Reviewer 2: I rewrote this, now it is precise but looks a bit verbose. Would welcome suggestions on making it cleaner without losing the precision.

> **Correct Value Commitment:** the following constraints must be added to ensure that the value commitment is computed using the witnessed Asset identifier, as represented in the notes:

Reviewer 4: Which one?

Reviewer 2: The two are separately constrained to be equal. Rewrote this to remove the ambiguity.

- The Value Commitment Integrity should be changed
    - Replace the input note value by a generic value, `v'`, as :math:`\mathsf{cv^net} = \mathsf{ValueCommit_rcv^OrchardZSA(v’ - v^new, AssetId)}`
- Add a boolean ``split`` variable as an auxiliary witness. This variable is to be activated ``split = 1`` if the Action in question is a split and ``split = 0`` if the Action is actually spending an input note:
    - If ``split = 1`` then set :math:`\mathsf{v}' = 0` otherwise :math:`\mathsf{v}'=\mathsf{v^{old}}` from the auxiliary input.
- The Merkle Path Validity should check the existence of the note commitment as usual (and not like with dummy notes):
    - Check that (path, pos) is a valid Merkle path of depth :math:`\mathsf{MerkleDepth^Orchard}`, from :math:`\mathsf{cm^old}` to the anchor :math:`\mathsf{rt^Orchard}`.
- The Nullifier Integrity will be changed to prevent the identification of notes
    - Replace the :math:`\psi_{old}` value with a generic :math:`\psi'` as :math:`\mathsf{nf_old = DeriveNullifier_nk}(\rho^\mathsf{old}, \psi', \mathsf{cm^old})`

>     - if :math:`split = 0` then constrain :math:`\psi' = \psi^{old}`. (Otherwise :math:`\psi'` should be sampled randomly.) 

Reviewer 4: > the following constraints must be added

> The Value Commitment Integrity should be changed

Reviewer 2: Edited this.

> **Enabling Backwards Compatibility with ZEC Notes:** the following constraints must be added to enable backwards compatibility with the Orchard ZEC notes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Enabling Backwards Compatibility with ZEC Notes:** the following constraints must be added to enable backwards compatibility with Orchard ZEC notes.
```

The old note commitment is computed using a “rolling-aggregate” Sinsemilla commitment. This means that the commitment is computed by adding new chunks or windows to the accumulated value. This method will be used in order to maintain a single commitment instance for the old note commitment, that will be used both for Orchard ZEC notes and for ZSA notes. The original Orchard ZEC notes will be conserved and not actually be converted into ZSA notes, as we will always need to compute them.

- The input note in the old note commitment integrity must either include an Asset identifier (ZSA note) or not (ZEC-Orchard note)
    - If the Asset identifier auxiliary input is set :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` = :math:`\mathcal{V}^\mathsf{Orchard}`
        - NoteCommitment has a “compatibility” path that computes the note commitment as in plain Orchard (i.e.: without including the identifier)
        - This path also uses the original domain separator for ZEC note commitment
    - Else, 
        - The NoteCommitment adds the identfier, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`, as a final “chunk” of the Sinsemilla commitment

>         - The NoteCommitment uses a different domain separator for ZSA note commitment

Reviewer 5: This should be moved either to the top of the "Circuit Statement" section, or more likely into a separate section before it describing changes to the definition of Sinsemilla (or the Sinsemilla gadget in Halo 2 terms). Then it can be referenced in the asset ID changes above.

Reviewer 2: This has been rewritten

Backward Compatibility
----------------------

In order to have a "clean" backwards compatibility with the ZEC notes, we have designed the circuit to support both ZEC and ZSA notes. As we specify above, there are three main reasons we can do this:
- The input notes with an Asset identifer denote the custom Assets, generating a note commitment that includes the Asset identifer; whereas the notes without an identifier, denote the ZEC notes, and generate a note commitment that does not include the Asset identifier, in order to maintain the referencability to the Merkle tree
- The value commitment is abstracted to allow for the value base-point as a variable private input to the proof

> - The ZEC-based actions will still include dummy input notes, whereas the ZSA-based actions will include split input notes.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- The ZEC-based Actions will still include dummy input notes, whereas the ZSA-based Actions will include split input notes.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

> Burn Mechanism

Reviewer 4: Can be restructured to have the specification and then its rationale immediately after spec, in one section

Reviewer 2: Done

First, contrary to the strict transfer transaction, we allow the sender to include a :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance_{AssetId}}` variable for every Asset identifier that is being burnt. As we will show in the transaction structure, this is separate from the regular :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance^Orchard}` that is the default transparent value for the ZEC Asset.
We require that for every :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance_{AssetId}}` provided as above by the sender, :math:`\mathsf{valueBalance_{AssetId}} \neq 0`. This is enforced via a consensus rule.

For every custom Asset that is burnt, we add to the `assetBurn` vector the tuple :math:`(\mathsf{valueBalance_{AssetId}, AssetId})` such that the validator of the transaction can compute the value commitment with the corresponding value base point of that Asset. This ensures that the values are all balanced out with respect to the Asset identifiers in the transfer.

:math:`\mathsf{assetBurn = \{ (v^{AssetId}, AssetId)}\ |\ \forall\ \mathsf{AssetId}\ \textit{s.t.}\ \mathsf{v^{AssetId}} \neq 0 \}`

> The value balances for each Asset identifier in `assetBurn` represents the amount of that Asset identifier that is being burnt. In the case of ZEC, the value balance represents either the transaction fee, or the amount of ZEC changing anonymity pools (to Sapling or Transparent).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The value balances for each Asset identifier in `assetBurn` represents the amount of that Asset identifier that is being burnt. In the case of ZEC, the value balance represents either the transaction fee, or the amount of ZEC changing pools (eg: to Sapling or Transparent).
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

Finally, the validator needs to verify the Balance and Binding Signature by adding the value balances for all Assets, as committed using their respective :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` as the value base point of the Pedersen Commitment. This is done as follows

:math:`\mathsf{bvk = (\sum cv_i^{net})}  - \mathsf{ ValueCommit_0^{Orchard}(v^{balanceOrchard})} - \sum_{\forall \mathsf{AssetId}\textit{ s.t. }\mathsf{v^{AssetId}\neq 0}} \mathsf{ValueCommit_0^{OrchardZSA}(v^{AssetId}, AssetId) } = \sum \mathsf{rcv_{i,j}^{net}}\mathcal{R}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`

> In the case that the balance of all the action values related to a specific Asset will be zero, there will be no value added to the vector. This way, the number of Assets, nor their identifiers will be revealed, except in the case that an Asset is burnt.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In the case that the balance of all the Action values related to a specific Asset will be zero, there will be no value added to the vector. This way, the number of Assets, nor their identifiers will be revealed, except in the case that an Asset is burnt.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

**Note:** Even if this mechanism allows having transparent ↔ shielded Asset transfers in theory, the transparent protocol will not be changed with this ZIP to adapt to a multiple Asset structure. This means that unless future consensus rules changes do allow it, unshielding will not be possible for custom Assets.

ZSA Transaction Structure
=========================

> The transaction format is similar to the version 5 transaction format described in the Zcash specification [#protocol-transactionstructure]_, with the following additions to the Orchard bundle:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion

The transaction format is similar to the version 5 transaction format described in the Zcash specification [#protocol-transactionstructure]_, with the following additions to the Orchard bundle:
```

Reviewer 2: blank line added

+-----------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+-------------------------+
| Bytes           | Name        | Data Type                         | Description             |
+=================+=============+===================================+=========================+
| varies          | nAssetBurn  | compactSize                       | number of Assets burnt  |
+-----------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+-------------------------+
| 40*nAssetBurn   | vAssetBurn  | bytes[40][nAssetBurn]             | 32 bytes Asset type_t,  |

> |                 |             |                                   | 8 bytes of valueBalance |

Reviewer 5: We could make it a parser error to encode a burn entry with `valueBalance = 0`. This would not only ensure that the asset IDs for non-burnt assets are not revealed; it would also prevent anyone from erroneously trying to "prove" that a particular asset was involved in a transaction by "burning 0" (this does not confer any binding requirement that any spent or output note of that asset type is present).

Reviewer 2: We've added this in now.

+-----------------+-------------+-----------------------------------+-------------------------+

> In terms of the action size, the ZSA action size differs from the Orchard action size by 32 bytes (due to the addition of the :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`). This implies that the size goes from 820 bytes in the Orchard action to 852 bytes in the ZSA action.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In terms of the Action size, the ZSA action size differs from the Orchard action size by 32 bytes (due to the addition of the :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`). This implies that the size goes from 820 bytes in the Orchard action to 852 bytes in the ZSA action.
```

Reviewer 2: Done

Other Considerations
====================

Transaction Fees
----------------

The fee mechanism described in this ZIP will follow the mechanism described in ZIP 317b [#zip-0317b]_.

> Security and Privacy

Reviewer 4: Top level?

Reviewer 2: Moved Security and Privacy to the top level, yes.

--------------------

> - Even if the Orchard protocol and ZSA protocol do not share the same anonymity pool (nodes can keep track of the notes that where published with different transaction structures), the migration from one to the other is done automatically and seamlessly. The Orchard bundle will be replaced by the ZSA bundle and all ZEC notes will be fully spendable with the new transaction structure.

Reviewer 4: This line is a bit confusing

Reviewer 2: Removed it in favour of a better bullet.

- When including new Assets we would like to maintain the amount and identifiers of Assets private, which is achieved with the design.
- We prevent the "roadblock" attack on the Asset identifer by ensuring the output notes receive an Asset identifier that exists on the global state.

> Deplopyment

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Deployment
```

Reviewer 2: Fixed.

-----------

> The Zcash Shielded Assets protocol should be deployed by replacing the Orchard protocol in a subsequent Network Upgrade. The design of this protocol ensures that there is no need to use any turnstile mechanism, being that Orchard-based ZEC notes can be used directly within the ZSA Actions.

Reviewer 4: 'replacing'?

Reviewer 2: Removed.

::

  ZIP: 226
  Title: Transfer and Burn of Zcash Shielded Assets
  Owners: Pablo Kogan <pablo@qed-it.com>
          Vivek Arte <vivek@qed-it.com>

>           Daira Hopwood <daira@electriccoin.co>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
          Daira Emma Hopwood <daira@electriccoin.co>
```

Reviewer 2: Done.

          Jack Grigg <str4d@electriccoin.co>

>           Deidre Connolly <deirdre@zfnd.org>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
          Deirdre Connolly <deirdre@zfnd.org>
```

Reviewer 2: Sorry about the typo

Overview
========
In order to be able to represent different Assets, we need to define a data field that uniquely represents the Asset in question, which we call the Asset Identifier :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}`. 

> This Asset Identifier is stored in Orchard-based ZSA notes as an Asset Base :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`.

Reviewer: This Asset Identifier maps to an Asset Base :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` that is stored in Orchard-based ZSA notes.

Reviewer 2: Done

These terms are formally defined in ZIP 227 [#zip-0227]_.

The Asset Identifier (via means of the Asset Base) will be used to enforce that the balance of an Action Description [#protocol-actions]_ is preserved across Assets (see the Orchard Binding Signature [#protocol-binding]_), and by extension the balance of an Orchard transaction. That is, the sum of all the :math:`\mathsf{value^{net}}` from each Action Description, computed as :math:`\mathsf{value^{old}-value^{new}}`, must be balanced **only with respect to the same Asset Identifier**. This is specially important since we will allow different Action Descriptions to transfer notes of different Asset Identifiers, where the overall balance is checked without revealing which (or how many distinct) Assets are being transferred.

As was initially proposed by Jack Grigg and Daira Hopwood [#initial-zsa-issue]_ [#generalized-value-commitments]_, we propose to make this happen by changing the value base point, :math:`\mathcal{V}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`, in the Homomorphic Pedersen Commitment that derives the value commitment, :math:`\mathsf{cv^{net}}`, of the *net value* in an Orchard Action.

> Because in a single transaction all value commitments are balanced, there must be as many different value base points as there are Asset Identifiers in the transaction. We propose to make the Asset Base :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` an auxiliary input to the proof for each Action statement [#protocol-actionstatement]_, represented already as a point on the Pallas curve. The circuit then should check that the same :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` is used in the old note commitment and the new note commitment [#protocol-concretesinsemillacommit]_, **and** as the base point :math:`\mathcal{V}^\mathsf{Orchard}` in the value commitment [#protocol-concretevaluecommit]_. This ensures (1) that the input and output notes are of the same :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}`, and (2) that only actions with the same Asset Base will balance out in the binding and balance signatures.

Reviewer: If we add another shielded protocol that uses a different AssetId -> AssetBase mapping, and both Orchard and that protocol are used in the same transaction, then there need not be exactly as many Asset Identifiers as Asset Bases. So the first sentence should be something like:

> Because in a single transaction all value commitments are balanced, there must be as many different value base points as there are Asset Identifiers for a given shielded protocol used in a transaction.

Reviewer: > that only actions with the same Asset Base will balance out in the binding and balance signatures.

These are just called "binding signatures".

Reviewer 2: Added these edits.

Asset Identifiers
-----------------

For every new Asset, there must be a new and unique Asset Identifier. Every Asset is defined by an *Asset description*, :math:`\mathsf{asset\_desc}`, which is a global byte string (scoped across all future versions of Zcash). From this Asset description and the issuance key of the issuer, the specific Asset Identifier, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` and the Asset Base (:math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` for the Orchard-based ZSA protocol) are derived as defined in ZIP 227 [#zip-0227]_.

This :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` will be the base point of the value commitment for the specific Custom Asset. Note that the :math:`\mathsf{AssetBase}^{\mathsf{Orchard}}` of the ZEC Asset will be kept as the original value base point, :math:`\mathcal{V}^\mathsf{Orchard}`.

> In future network and protocol upgrades, the same Asset description string can be carried on, with potentially a mapping into a different shielded protocol. In that case, the turnstile should know how to transform the Asset Identifier, :math:`\mathsf{AssetId}` and the Asset Base from one shielded protocol to another.

Reviewer: Reminder to self: Consider what needs to be represented for a transfer of the same asset between protocols. I think it should be a mapping from AssetId to valueBalance (for that asset). Also think about complications that may arise only when there are three or more simultaneously active shielded protocols supporting ZSAs.

Reviewer 2: Added the Asset Digest as well here, as the intermediate step.

Transaction Fees
----------------

The fee mechanism for the upgrades proposed in this ZIP will follow the mechanism described in ZIP 317 for the ZSA protocol upgrade [#zip-0317b]_.

Security and Privacy
--------------------

- Even if the Orchard protocol and ZSA protocol do not share the same anonymity pool (nodes can keep track of the notes that where published with different transaction structures), the migration from one to the other is done automatically and seamlessly. The Orchard bundle will be replaced by the ZSA bundle and all ZEC notes will be fully spendable with the new transaction structure.
- When including new Assets we would like to maintain the amount and identifiers of Assets private, which is achieved with the design.
- We prevent the "roadblock" attack on the Asset identifer by ensuring the output notes receive an Asset identifier that exists on the global state.
- Wallets need to communicate the names of the Assets in a non-confusing way to users, since the byte representation of the Asset Identifier would be hard to read for an end user. Possible solutions are the use of a petname system or a list of well-known Assets. 

>     - One proposal for a petname system for the zcashd wallet is the use of an additional configuration file that stores a mapping of names to Asset identifiers. This allows clients to rename the Assets in a way they find useful. Default versions of this file with well-known Assets listed can be made available online as a starting point for clients.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - One proposal for a petname system for the zcashd wallet is the use of an additional configuration file that stores a one-to-one mapping of names to Asset identifiers. This allows clients to rename the Assets in a way they find useful. Default versions of this file with well-known Assets listed can be made available online as a starting point for clients.
```

Reviewer 2: Done.
